# Welcome to Acoustic Nimbus

Acoustic Nimbus is a SoundCloud-inspired web application that allows users to share, listen to music and follow their favorite artists.
[Visit Acoustic Nimbus Here!](http://acoustic-nimbus.herokuapp.com)

## The Front-End

On the front-end, React.js is implemented along with Redux.js to provide users an efficient and seamless experience throughout the site by updating and rendering the relevant components on the page only, while limiting expensive data retrieval from the back-end by storing data fetched at the Redux store. 
```
// store.js

const configureStore = (preloadedState = {}) => {
  return (
    createStore(rootReducer, preloadedState, applyMiddleware(thunk, logger))
  );
};

// root_reducer.js

const rootReducer = combineReducers({
  entities: entitiesReducer,
  session: sessionReducer,
  errors: errorsReducer,
  ui: uiReducer,
});

- root
| - entities
  | - songs
  | - likes
  | - follows
  | - comments
  | - users
| - session
| - errors
  | - session
  | - songs
| - ui
  | - modal
  | - currentSong
  | - player
  | - queue
  | - queueList
  | - charts
```
### Categorized State

### Reusable Component

Since many components on different pages share some similarities in design and structure, common components are deconstructed in a way that they could be reusable in different circumstances and grouped together in the same directory. 

## The Back-End

With a Ruby on Rails back-end that communicates with a PostgreSQL database and utilizes assets hosted on Amazon Web Services S3, Acoustic Nimbus optimizes data fetching by querying relevant data with parameters from the front-end, which allows the back-end to handle data parsing and minimizes load times on the front-end.

## Features

### Waveform Audio Player
Songs on the pages are all displayed as music players with audio waveform visualization, where users can interact with the waveforms to play the music at desired time positions in the song.

### Cross-page Audio Player
A simple, cross-page audio player is implemented at the very top level of the app, allowing users to enjoy their music without interruption while navigating around the site. While Redux store is used to keep track of the current song being played at the
moment, React.js takes care of rendering the player component by "reacting" to data changes with current song at the Redux store.

### Auto-queueing, Shuffling & Looping
After a song is selected to be played, a queue of songs is automatically generated by the group of songs that the playing song is selected from. Songs in the queue will be played one by one in the background as the user is browsing around the site. When a song that does not exist in the current queue is selected to be played, a new queue of songs will then be dynamically generated from the new group of songs. Users can repeatedly play a single song from the queue or play all songs by looping through the entire queue in normal/shuffled order.

### Likes, Comments & Follows
Users can like, comment on any songs and follow any artist on Acoustic Nimbus. While users can visit the designated show page of each user(artist)/song to perform any "social interactions" - liking, commenting on a song, or following a user, stream pages provides freedom to users to like or comment on any song is currently being played without redirecting to the song's show page.

## Future Plans

In the future, I would like to implement the social aspects of Spotify, like being able to friend other users and share playlists between each other. Also, I have plans to add more ways to categorize the artists, albums, and tracks, such as genre, to add more dimensions to the search and explore pages.

[Visit Acoustic Nimbus Here!](http://acoustic-nimbus.herokuapp.com)